---
sidebar_position: 5
---

# Creating Rules - Part 1

As discussed in the last section, we're going to place the following restrictions on the predicates in the `wallet` collection:

- `wallet/name` - only the owner of the wallet can edit
- `wallet/balance` - anyone can edit
- `wallet/user` - no one can edit.

The first thing that we need to do is create a smart function that checks if the user making the update `(?auth_id)` is the owner of the wallet.

We'll need to use the following built-in function:

- `(query "query string here")` : issues any query you like. Here we'll be issuing the query:

```json
{
  "select": [
    {
      "wallet/user": [
        {
          "_user/auth": ["_id"]
        }
      ]
    }
  ],
  "from": "(?sid)"
}
```

When you stringify this query, it is: `(str \"{\\\"select\\\": [{\\\"wallet/user\\\": [{\\\"_user/auth\\\": [\\\"_id\\\"]}]}], \\\"from\\\": \" (?sid) \" }\")`.

- `(get-all X Y)` : Gets all of a certain predicate (or predicate-path), `Y` from an subject, `X`, returns a set or nil. For example, assuming `(?s)` is a person we are updating. `(get-all QUERY-RES-HERE [\"person/chat\" \"_id\"])` gets the `_id`s for all `chats` records referenced in `person/chat` from the result of the query.

- `(contains? X Y)` : Checks whether an object or hash-set, `X` contains a specific key (for objects) or value (for hash-sets), `Y`.

- `(?auth_id)` : The auth id issuing this request.

To create a smart function, and attach that smart function to a rule for `wallet/name`, our transaction would look as follows:

```json
[
  {
    "_id": "_fn$ownWallet",
    "name": "ownWallet?",
    "code": "SMART FUNCTION CODE HERE"
  },
  {
    "_id": "_rule$editOwnWalletName",
    "id": "editOwnWalletName",
    "doc": "A cryptoUser can only edit their own wallet/name",
    "fns": ["_fn$ownWallet"],
    "ops": ["transact"],
    "collection": "wallet",
    "predicates": ["wallet/name"]
  }
]
```

<div class="challenge">
<h3>Write a Smart Function!</h3>
<br/>
<p>Using the smart functions listed above, can you figure out how to create a smart function that checks whether the wallet being updated is owned by the user trying to update it?</p>
</div>
