---
sidebar_position: 7
---

# Add Auth, Roles

Now, we have three rules that we need to connect to the users.

1. In order to do this, we need to create a new role that has all three rules we created in the past two lessons.

    To create a role, we need to specify:

    - id : We'll use `cryptoUser`
    - doc : A docstring to explain this role
    - rules : We can use two tuples to reference the three rules we just created. So you don't have to refer back to the last lesson, the `_rule/id` for the rules we just created are, cantEditWalletUser, editAnyCryptoBalance, and editOwnWalletName.

    (See all [_role predicates](/concepts/infrastructure/system_collections.md#_role))

2. Create two new `_auth` records, which both have the `cryptoUser` role.

    To create an auth, we'll specify:

    - id : We'll use `cryptoMan` and `cryptoWoman`
    - doc : A docstring to explain this auth
    - roles : This is a reference to the relevant `_role`s. To reference the role we are creating in this same transaction, you'll need to use [tempids](/overview/transact/basics.md#temporary-ids).

    (See all [_auth predicates](/concepts/infrastructure/system_collections.md#_auth)).

3. Connect `_auth` to `_user`s we created several steps back.

    The usernames from the users we created are `cryptoMan` and `cryptoWoman`. We'll need to reference those `_user`s as the value of the `_id` key.

        We'll also need to specify `_auth`:

        - auth : This is a reference to the relevant `_auth`s. To reference the auths we are creating in this same transaction, you'll need to use [tempids](/overview/transact/basics.md#temporary-ids).

<div class="challenge">
<h3>Create Auth and Role!</h3>
<h4>Quiz Question:</h4>
<p>Using the instructions above, create a role, two auth records, and connect those auth records to the two users we created earlier.</p>
</div>
<br/>
<br/>
