---
sidebar_position: 9
---

# Restrict Crypto Spending

At this point, anyone can edit anyone else's `wallet/balance` to 0, and edit their own `wallet/balance` to infinity. This is clearly not a great situation to be in.

To deal with this, we'll add a smart function that ensures that if you are editing your own `wallet/balance`, you can subtract, and if you are editing someone else's `wallet/balance`, you can only add.

In previous lessons, we gave you the full transaction with the exception of the code of the smart function. In this lesson, you'll be writing the full transaction **and** the smart function. Don't worry,you're ready for it! In this transaction, you need to:

1. Create a new function
2. Add that function to the relevant predicate

## Creating a New Function {#creating-a-new-function}

Your `_fn` object should have the following key-value pairs:

- `_id` - This should be the collection of the subject you are creating (`_fn`).
- `name` - We'll use "subtractOwnAddOthers?"
- `code` - See [Writing the Smart Function](#writing-the-smart-function) below
- `doc` - An explanation of this function in words

## Adding that Function to the Relevant Predicate {#adding-that-function-to-the-relevant-predicate}

In order to do this, you need to include:

- `_id` - The value of your `_id` key should specify the predicate you are updating with a unique two-tuple (see the previous lesson for an example).
- `spec` - A reference to the function you just created; Use a tempid. (See the previous lesson for an example). This is a `multi` predicate, so your value should be between `[` and `]`.
- `specDoc`- The error message that you want to be thrown if a transaction violates this function. Note that if a predicate has multiple smart functions, the `specDoc` is shared among smart functions

## Writing the Smart Function {#writing-the-smart-function}

You will need one (or several) of these [Universal SmartFunctions](/overview/schema/smartfunctions.mdx#universal-functions) to write, `subtractOwnAddOthers?`.

| Function | Arguments       | Example           |
| -------- | --------------- | ----------------- |
| `inc`    | `n` optional    | `(inc)`           |
| `dec`    | `n` optional    | `(dec)`           |
| `==`     | `arg1 arg2 ...` | `(== 1 1 1 1)`    |
| `+`      | `arg1 arg2 ...` | `(+ 1 2 3)`       |
| `-`      | `arg1 arg2 ...` | `(- 10 9 3)`      |
| `*`      | `arg1 arg2 ...` | `(* 90 10 2)`     |
| `/`      | `arg1 arg2 ...` | `(/ 36 3 4)`      |
| `>`      | `arg1 arg2 ...` | `(> 90 10 2)`     |
| `<`      | `arg1 arg2 ...` | `(< 90 10 2)`     |
| `>=`     | `arg1 arg2 ...` | `(>= 90 90 10 2)` |
| `<`      | `arg1 arg2 ...` | `(< 2 10 90)`     |
| `<=`     | `arg1 arg2 ...` | `(<= 2 10 90 90)` |
| `max`    | `arg1 arg2 ...` | `(max 1 2 3)`     |
| `min`    | `arg1 arg2 ...` | `(min 1 2 3)`     |

<br/>
<br/>

You will also need these two context-specific functions:

- `(?o)` represents the object (value) for the predicate you are updating. (Technically, this is the **proposed** object)
- `(?pO)` represents the previous object (value) for the predicate you are updating.

And finally, you will need the function, `ownWallet?`. If you remember, we add `ownWallet?` to our ledger in Lesson 5. In `addOwnSubtractOthers?` we also need to figure out whether the wallet being updated belongs to the user doing the updating. However, instead of re-writing the `ownWallet?`, we can just use it in our smart function. In other words, if you insert `(ownWallet?)` anywhere in your smart function, it will return `true` if the wallet is yours, `false` if it is not.

<div class="challenge">
<h3>Write and Add addOwnSubtractOthers?</h3>
<br/>
<p>Follow the instructions above to create a new smart function and add it to the relevant predicate.</p>
</div>
