# Creating a Collection

## Transactions {#transactions}

Every transaction that you issue needs to be inside of square brackets, `[` and `]`, and every subject that you are creating or updating needs to be inside of curly brackets `{`, and `}`. Each of those objects inside of curly brackets, will have multiple key-value pairs. The order of those key-value pairs does not matter, but each object needs to have an `_id` key.

## `_id`s and TempIds {#_ids-and-tempids}

If you are updating a subject, the value of the `_id` key can either refer to an existing subject (either by the long integer `_id` or by a unique two-tuple). If you are adding a new subject, the value of the `_id` key needs to be the name of the collection that that new subject belongs to.

For example, if we were creating a new `actor`, our transaction would contain `"_id": "actor"`. When creating a new subject, you can also add a [temporary id](/overview/transact/basics.md#temporary-ids) by appending the collection name with any invalid character (any character other than a-z, A-Z, 0-9, \_) and the temporary id.

For example, if I were creating several new actors, my transaction might contain, `"_id": "actor$1"` and `"_id": "actor$secondActor"`.

When you create a collection, there are many predicates that you can specify for each collection. The [full list of built-in predicates](/concepts/infrastructure/system_collections.md#_collection) can be found in the docs.

## Predicates in a Transaction {#predicates-in-a-transaction}

Other than the `_id` key, we need to include any other predicate that we want to add or update as an additional key.

For example, if I'm creating a new `_collection`, I need to have `"_id": "_collection"` as a key-value pair in my transaction. If I also want to specify a `_collection/name`, then I can use `_collection/name` as a key and the name as the value. The transaction might look like this:

```json
[{
    "_id": "_collection",
    "_collection/name": "person"
}]
```

Note that some collections start with `_`, like `_collection`, `_predicate`, `_rule`, etc. These collections are built-in system collections.

If we want to specify both a name and `_collection/doc` for our new collection, we could issue the following transaction:

```json
[{
    "_id": "_collection$personCollection",
    "name": "person",
    "doc": "Collection to hold all people"
}]
```

As you can see above, if the predicates you are adding belong to the same collection as the subject you are creating (they usually do, but don't have to), then you can omit the collection name (i.e `doc` and `name` instead of `_collection/doc` and `_collection/name`).

The above collection also contains a temporary id, `personCollection`. This tempid is not particularly useful in this transaction, but you'll see later on in the lessons how these can be useful.

## Multiple Transaction Items {#multiple-transaction-items}

We can add as many transaction items to our transaction as we want, for example to create two new collections with names: person and chat, our transaction would look as follows:

```json
[{
    "_id": "_collection$personCollection",
    "name": "person",
    "doc": "Collection to hold all people"
},
{
    "_id": "_collection",
    "name": "chat",
    "doc": "Collection to for all chats"
}]
```

<div class="challenge">
<h3>Create 4 Collections: person, chat, comment, artist </h3>
<p>Write a transaction that creates 4 collections, complete with collection names and docs.
</p>
<p>Try typing your own solution first before clicking "Get Solution" to check your answer. </p>
</div>
