# Creating Predicates: Part 1

Now, we have four collections in our ledger: `chat`, `person`, `comment`, and `artist`, and we need to create predicates for those collections.

## Creating Predicates {#creating-predicates}

Collections and predicates are stored in the ledger the same way that any other type of information is stored.

When you are creating a new predicate, you are creating a new subject of type `_predicate`, and that subject contains certain predicates. These are that particular predicate's predicates.

There are many predicates that you can specify for each predicate. The [full list of built-in predicates](/concepts/infrastructure/system_collections.md#_predicate) can be found in the docs.

We will using the following predicate predicates:

- `_predicate/name`
- `_predicate/doc`
- `_predicate/type`

`_predicate/name` must be namespaced with the collection you intend it to be used within. For example, if you want to make a predicate for a person's name, it can't just be `name` - it must be `person/name`.

`_predicate/type` is data type for this predicate. The full list of [valid types](/concepts/infrastructure/system_collections.md#_predicate-types) can be found in the docs, but for this lesson we'll be only using: `string` (text), `int` (number), `ref` (reference), and `instant` (time represented by number of seconds).

If we want to create a predicate - `person/fullName` that should be of type `string`, meaning it is text. The transaction would look like this:

```json
[{
    "_id": "_predicate",
    "name": "person/fullName",
    "type": "string"
}]
```

<div class="challenge">
<h3>Create `chat/message` </h3>
<p>This predicate will contain the text of a chat message. Make sure to specify both the predicate name and type.
</p>
</div>
