# Creating Predicates: Part 2

Our full application schema will contain 12 predicates.

We've already shown you how to create `person/fullName` and `chat/messsage`. In order to create the other 10 predicates, we'll need to use additional predicate predicates:

- `_predicate/unique` - Is a predicate unique? `true` or `false`
- `_predicate/multi` - Can a predicate include multiple objects (values)? `true` or `false`
- `_predicate/restrictCollection` - If a predicate is of type `ref`, we can restrict it so that the references only refer to one type of subject. The value for this should be the name of the collection, i.e. `"restrictCollection": "artist"`

## Application Schema Predicates {#application-schema-predicates}

The following is the full list of predicates we still need to create.

- Predicates that should be unique are marked with a **'\*'**.

- Predicates that are of type, `ref` are marked with a **'~'**. See if you can figure out what collections those predicates should be referencing.

- Predicates that are `"multi": true` are marked with a **'+'**.

Person:

- `person/handle` **\***
- `person/follows` **~** , **+**
- `person/favNums` **+**
- `person/favArtists` **~** , **+**

Chat:

- `chat/person` **~**
- `chat/instant`
- `chat/comments` **~** , **+**

Comment:

- `comment/message`
- `comment/person` **~**

Artist:

- `artist/name` **\***

Your job is to create the remaining 10 predicates. A few points:

1. If a predicate is not unique, you don't have to list `"unique": false`. Predicates are not unique by default.
2. If a predicate is not 'multi', you don't have to list `"multi": false`. Predicates are not multi by default.
3. `true` and `false` do not need to be surrounded by quotation marks. In most programming languages, and in FlureeQL, `true` and `false` are special keywords.
4. Remember, the types we are using are: `string` (text), `int` (numbers), `ref` (reference), and `instant` (time).

<div class="challenge">
<h3>Create All 10 Predicates Above </h3>
<p>Write a transaction to create the 10 predicates we need for our chat application schema.
</p>
</div>
