---
sidebar_position: 2
---

# Creating Our Schema

In our schema, we'll have two collections, `vote` and `change`, with the following predicates:

- `vote/name` - unique, string
- `vote/yesVotes` - multi ref predicate, restricted to the `_auth` collection
- `vote/noVotes` - multi ref predicate, restricted to the `_auth` collection
- `change/name`
- `change/subject` - ref, indexed
- `change/predicate` - ref, restricted to the `_predicate` collection, indexed
- `change/object` - string, indexed
- `change/doc`
- `change/vote` - ref, restricted to the `vote` collection, unique

Subjects in the `change` collection contains all the details about the change that is proposed, as well as a reference to the relevant vote. You'll notice that the object of the proposed change can only be a string. This is to simplify this example, but in a real application, you might want to be able to vote on changes with other types of objects as well.

Do you remember how to create a schema?

Visit the [Schema](/overview/schema/overview.md) section.

- Remember, you need to specify a `type`. The most basic and common types are `int` (numbers), `string` (text), and `ref` (references). For a `ref` type, it is good practice to specify a `restrictCollection`, so the `ref` can only refer to a subject in a specific collection.

- Some predicates may also need to be `unique` or `index`. These requirements are listed above.

<div class="challenge">
<h3>Create the Schema</h3>
<p>
Create the two collections (vote and change) and nine predicates mentioned above.
</p>
</div>
