# Wikidata Introduction

Wikidata is a triple-store dataset used by Wikimedia Projects, such as Wikipedia. You can use SPARQL to query Wikidata. (Note: not all SPARQL options supported by Wikidata are supported by Fluree's SPARQL interface).

All information in Wikidata is based on subject-predicate-object triples, just like Fluree.

All subjects, predicates, and objects can be referred to by a unique id.

Items (subjects and objects) are uniquely identified by `Q` followed by a number. They should be prefixed with `wd:`. For example, `wd:Q146` is "house cat".

Predicates are referred to by `P` followed by a number. They should be prefixed with `wdt:`. For example, `wdt:P31` is "instance of".

Objects can also be a literal value (i.e. 335), depending on the query.

The following query selects all house cats in the ledger.

```sparql
SELECT ?cat
WHERE
{
  ?cat wdt:P31 wd:Q146.
}
```

The first four items in the results are wd:Q378619, wd:Q498787, wd:Q677525, and wd:Q851190. By default, we get the Qids for the items in our SELECT clause.

If we want to return a variable's label, simply SELECT from that variable followed by label. For example to select `?cat` labels, include `?catLabel` in your select clause.

```sparql
SELECT ?cat ?catLabel
WHERE
{
  ?cat wdt:P31 wd:Q146.
}
```

English labels are automatically returned (there is an option to [change languages](/overview/query/sparql.md#language-labels), but that is not covered in this lesson). The above query works in Fluree, because behind-the-scenes, we add the proper clause to include labels. The above query, however would not work in Wikidata without adding a service label for language (see [Wikidata documentation on that here](https://en.wikibooks.org/wiki/SPARQL/SERVICE_-_Label)).

## Wikidata {#wikidata}

If you intend to use Wikidata extensively for your project, we recommend seeking out additional resources to learn about Wikidata. Wikidata is a tremendously large project, and for serious use (more than pulling in information for one or two queries), we recommend:

1. Watching [A Gentle Introduction to Wikidata for Absolute Beginners](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:A_Gentle_Introduction_to_Wikidata_for_Absolute_Beginners_(including_non-techies!).webm)
and additional resources on the [Wikidata site](https://www.wikidata.org/).

2. Testing queries with the [Wikidata SPARQL interface](https://query.wikidata.org/)

You can issue SPARQL queries using the Fluree interface, and you can issue Wikidata queries on [their own SPARQL interface](https://query.wikidata.org/). The Wikidata interface is useful, because it has examples, links to resources, and auto-complete features that help you find the exact Q- and P-ids you need.

## Challenge {#challenge}

The challenge at the end of this lesson will involve the following query:

```sparql
SELECT ?name ?artist ?artwork
WHERE {
    ?person     fd:person/handle        "jdoe";
                fd:person/favArtists    ?artist.
    ?artist     fd:artist/name          ?name.
    ?artwork    wdt:P170                ?creator.
    ?creator    wd:?label               ?name.
}
```
