# Wikidata: Continued

For this section, we'll take a closer look at the challenge query from last time, and spend some time walking through the query triple-by-triple.

```sparql
SELECT ?name ?artist ?artwork ?artworkLabel
WHERE {
    ?person      fd:person/handle        "jdoe";
                        fd:person/favArtists    ?artist.
    ?artist         fd:artist/name           ?name.
    ?artwork    wdt:P170                    ?creator.
    ?creator     wd:?label                   ?name.
}
```

The first three triples should be fairly easy, as they just use Fluree data.

1. `?person fd:person/handle "jdoe";`

   First, we bind `?person` to the subject id that matches `person/handle` is `jdoe`. There can only be one subject that matches this pattern in our ledger.

2. `... fd:person/favArtists ?artist.`

   Then, we bind all of Jane Doe's favorite artists' subject ids to `?artist`. This binds just the artists' subject ids, because `person/favArtists` is a predicate of type `ref`.

3. `?artist fd:artist/name ?name.`

   In order to get all artists' names, we need to get their `artist/name`, and we bind all of those names to `?name`.

   > The last two triples use Wikidata.

4. `?artwork wdt:P170 ?creator.`

   Both `?artwork` and `?creator` are completely new variables that haven't been bound to any data yet. In this triple, we are looking for any Wikidata that match the pattern "anything (`?artwork`) created by (`wdt:P170`) anyone (`?creator`).

5. `?creator wd:?label ?name.`

   This final triple connects our Wikidata data with our Fluree. `?creator` is already bound to any creator in Wikidata. `?name` is bound to all of Jane Doe's favorite artists.

`?label` has the prefix `wd:`, just to let Fluree know that this triple should be processed using Wikidata. The prefix could just as easily been put on `wd:?creator` or `wd:?name`.

There are many different predicates in Wikidata that correspond to the way things are named (alternate spellings, different labelling schemes, etc). To simplify this, we just say that any `?creator` with any predicate where the object is `?name` should be returned. In practice, this only returns `?creator`s whose names/labels are `?name`, because almost all other predicates would return a Q-id, instead of a value.

If this is confusing, that's okay! If you're using Wikidata extensively, we recommend diving deeply into their resources. If you want to use Wikidata for one to two queries, you can just use examples queries + modify until you're happy.
